# Guidance for Copilot

This project is several things:

1. An attempt to replace express, etc. as separate frameworks by using Bun's version of Node native workspaces to run a JSX based react app;
2. A staging platform for multilanguage development for multiple users without too much cross contamination;
3. Some unobtrusive helper scripts.

## Hierarchical Structure:

The user is assumed to have `direnv` installed. If so, they should have .envrc run when they enter the folder, which will add .nosh/bin to the path (and execute any additional scripts in .nosh/usr/profiles).

Nosh scripts are invoked like this:
`nosh [namespace]:[script] [...args]`
such that `nosh sys:upgrade` would run the script in .nosh/bin/namespaces/sys/upgrade.
These scripts do call each other; for instance, sanity is almost never called by the user, but will do opinionated force-installs on the system (and later, hopefully, block the installation of known metrics gathering packages, like... well, you, probably, but also d3 etc.)

The .nosh/etc namespace holds the nosh configuration itself, as well as security keys.
The .nosh/usr folder holds user/install specific information.

The .envrc also adds the workspace folder tk/bin/* to the path. The tk/ workspace is for development of packages in any language, and their binaries are added to the path for usage in projects.

The libs/ folder is a nested workspace folder. Those belonging to the framework are in libs/@nosh/, and mostly provide framework-level features which formerly existed individually in my other projects; the goal is to have a filesystem-routed jsx application in /app/graybin/views where the components are a combination of components in the `libs/**/*` space, plus anything in the app level $ folder (which contains $/el, which construct $/widgets, which construct $sections, and are composited into scenes- the file folder which is routed by the boot loader).

The bootloader itself is in libs/@nosh/freebooter; a set of libraries are here for future / current implementation:

* neoclassical, an extension of the JS core libs;
* unhelpfully, a set of utility functions;
* logn, a logger (the _scrawl_ utility in nosh also logs to the repo-level /logs/ folder)
* keyring, an unfinished gpg key manager;
* anonymous, a handful of authorization systems providing for 'non real world user' authentication;
* nokv,an lmmdb wrapper;
* sqlrite, to wrap Bun's native sqlite libraries in a library similar to npm's excellent `postgres` library.